Portal Storm Coherency Pass (#65129)
CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA: doc/PORTAL_STORM_BALANCE_AND_DESIGN.md

# Portal Storm Design

> Portal storms are otherworldly colisions. Evil and malicious entities from inexplainable spaces are pouring into our world. However this doesn't mean it's a good way to imediately kill the character.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Portal storms are otherworldly collisions. Evil and malicious entities from inexplainable spaces are pouring into our world. However this doesn't mean it's a good way to immediately kill the character.
```

## Ideas
Portal Storms should consist of the inexplainable and the disturbing.  There should be less of a focus even on our usual nether monsters, instead leaning on even more disturbing creatures. 

## Reminders
Some things to keep in mind when working on Portal Storms:
* Portal storms are weather: You are not writing boss fights, or end game encounters, you are writing and implementing weather effects. Try not to lose track of that.
* Portal storms shouldn't be forced rest: It should be *possible* for a strong character to maneuver in a portal storm. It can be risky, but shouldn't be impossible.
* Portal storm encounters don't need to be rewarding: Some encounters will be, but not every encounter needs a carrot. The variance of portal storms means that traveling the storms is a gamble, sometimes you get lucky, other times you do not.
* Portal storms should only be *actively* dangerous with creatures hunting you when you go outside (more on this in balance).

> * Portal storms are trying to destroy humans, and warp the world: Portal storms should also really only be dangerous to humans, creatures that can percieve the otherworldly nature. Animals and the dead should have little to no interest in the other side and vice versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Portal storms are trying to destroy humans, and warp the world: Portal storms should also really only be dangerous to humans, creatures that can perceive the otherworldly nature. Animals and the dead should have little to no interest in the other side and vice versa.
```

> * Don't be annoying: Nothing ruins ambience as fast as tedium. Don't spam effects, don't waste the players time. Portal Storms already *show* the player they are dangerous, we do not need to *tell* the player they are scary or weird.

Reviewer 2: "Tedium" is pretty vague here and generally just used for heckling. Consider "repetition" instead.

* Portal storms are compounding difficulty: A player sitting in their fortified base with doors and the blinds shut **should be safe from the storm**. Storms should compound problems the player is already facing, Cataclysm is a game of **compounding difficulty** and **losing to a mistake you made 5 minutes ago**. Don't build portal storm encounters to kill high powered characters in a 1v1, they should be an additional vector to put pressure on the player and force them adapt while in the field.

## Long Term Desires
A few of the additional goals for storms are as follows:

* Localized and trackable storms, similar to a game like Death Stranding where you can detect and avoid storm areas, or even drive out of them.
* Themed storms. Currently we have one eldritch themed storm with a mix of everything, having a number of themed storms with different effects and thematic voices would be great.

# Portal Storm Balance
There are a few seperate concepts dictating portal storms.

## Ire

> Being outside in a portal storm should draw the attention of the malicious enities being pulled into our realm by the storm. This is refered to in the code and this document as `ire`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Being outside in a portal storm should draw the attention of the malicious entities being pulled into our realm by the storm. This is referred to in the code and this document as `ire`.
```

## Passive vs Active

> Portal storms should represent two seperate ideas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Portal storms should represent two separate ideas.
```
